Things I've learnt from 6 years of professional experience and some reading

1. Startups are not inherently different from large companies.
2. Startups aren't for everyone-- and no, that's not snark. The types of problems you solve at a very large scale differ from. You might be able to solve all kinds of problems, but you may not be equally happy. This is okay.
3. Don't try to wear multiple hats. Not "don't ever" but "it's not a great idea." You are paid to wear one specific hat. It doesn't matter if that other hat is growing moldly from lack of use. If you put it on, you will be wearing two hats on top of each other. It does not look smart. And one of them is still moldy. 




6. Promotions require more than good work, and titles are situational. This is not to say that people who get promoted don't deserve it! They do! But you can fail to be promoted because you weren't on the right projects, didn't have a manager who had the interest or bandwidth to fight for you, or you have a flat structure that discourages promotions (e.g. you will get more promotions with hierarchy).
7. You might be working really hard, putting in 12 hours every day, trying to fix everything. It doesn't mean your work is valuable.
8. The definition of done varies from place to place. Different products will have different rigors when releasing products.
8. One person can make a difference... it only takes good men giving up for evil to succeed. That's kind of ridiculous, but it's true. But it's also true in reverse-- it can take very little for good people to stop trying. It's controversial


9. I think pedigree is valued than I think, and less important than most people think.




4. We have the privilege of being able to fail earlier the more junior we are, so abuse it.
4. Quitting because a place isn't perfect is a bad idea. We would be lucky to work on perfect codebases. But worse would be staying too long. If you're not happy at a place, you can see it through-- but time box it.
5. A good indicator on whether to leave or stay is practicing the following interview questions:
    * Tell me about your career path and what brings you to applying to (new company).
    * Tell me about the most significant project you worked on.
    * Tell me about a project where you were an essential contributor, and what that contribution was.
    * Tell me about a trade off you made and how / why you decide to make it.
    * Tell me about the specifics of what you worked on, as another company in the same industry.
    * Tell me how you screwed up, and then how you grew from that screw up, and what you would do differently. It can be on a project, interpersonally at work, or whatever else.

    If you're not satisfied with your answers, I would figure out how to optimize your work until you have satisfactory answers. (So for example, lead a project, make a tradeoff.)

    If you can't improve on your answers or don't see a path to do so, consider leaving. It doens't matter if you're doing important work if you can't communicate it to others.
10. Drink more. Doesn't have to be alcohol, can be whatever else and a social sport. But I usually tried to be proactively social and welcoming wherever I worked. Not every connection lasted, but when I was out of work, lots of people extended me general advice and referral offers. And the people I had questions to were exceptionally nice too. 
    11. Also, if you're still in college, I would also drink more. Same stuff applies. Simplistically, I'd say introverts define the world, but extroverts rule it. Networking is essential. The company you're at will probably fail and your options will probably be shit and hell, maybe your equity will be clawed back. But no one can take away the connections you've made and any future potential cofounders you've met. We are generally working 40 hours a week with people and don't have the meaningful choice to work less; why not socially engage with the people you spend a third of your day with? That's probably more than your friends. Also, if you're an anti-capitalist, capitalism wins when you don't discuss work. It also gives you a greater sense of how others work.



